I hope you weren’t planning
on sleeping all day.
Actually, I was thinking about it.
Come on, Papa,
look how beautiful it is outside!
OK. OK.
Hmm.
Oh, I found this picture
while cleaning the attic.
I didn’t know you played the violin.
Sergei.
Sergei, it’s getting late.
It’s time to put the violin down.
A little longer, please?
My teacher says I’m really good.
It’s true.
You’re playing better than I do now.
A man from the music conservatory
came to our class,
and my teacher told me
to play for him.
Oh, and how did that go?
Well, first I was nervous.
After I was done,
he asked me if I can attend
a program for young, gifted musicians.
Hmm.
And, uh, what did you tell him?
I told him I’d ask you first.
So, can I, please?
I don’t think it’s a good idea.
What?
But why?
It’s just playing the violin!
You and I play together.
What’s the difference?
The difference is we play violin
for our enjoyment.
It’s different with the world.
The pressure to be
the very best is so strong.
And the spirit of competition
—it can become so great
that it will consume you.
I can handle it.
Sergei, a conservatory exists
to convince young people
to make music their life,
their career.
You will be surrounded
by people who don’t love Jehovah.
Can you handle that?
I don’t know.
But I really love it.
And I’m not good at anything else,
but I’m good at this.
Couldn’t I just try for a little bit?
I think it will only make
it harder for you.
And, Sergei,
you don’t have to give up playing.
We still can enjoy playing
beautiful music together,
like we always do.
Just not at the conservatory.
That’s right.
We must show Jehovah that we love him first.
I just don’t understand.
One day you will understand.
For now,
I really appreciate you being obedient.
Good answer, Alexi!
Natalia and I have really enjoyed
our studies, Sergei.
But we missed your father tonight.
We really hope he’s feeling better soon.
Thank you.
Who is it?
Alexi, it’s me, Daniel.
Let me in.
Sorry, I’m late.
It’s OK, Daniel.
We’re glad you could join us.
You are sure you weren’t followed?
Yes.
I’m sure.
I passed a group of police
on the way.
But they did not see me.
They were busy arresting a man.
It is getting more and more dangerous.
I’m so scared.
It’s true.
These are dangerous times.
What helps me is to think of the ones
like Jeremiah and the apostle Paul.
They were ordinary people just like us.
But Jehovah granted them
“the power beyond what is normal”
so that they were able to endure.
When we meditate on examples like these,
it gives us courage.
Father?
Father!
Sergei.
Sergei Alexandrov.
We have been looking for you.
What have you done with him?
I will ask the questions!
Where is it?
Let him go.
Please!
He’s sick!
I will ask again!
Where is it?
Where is what?
The seditious literature
your religion produces.
We know you are Jehovah’s Witnesses.
Why are you doing this?
We’ve done nothing!
You know the law,
and yet you chose to disobey it.
You believe this is nothing, Sergei?
Now tell us where to find your literature.
Perhaps, then,
I will extend some consideration.
You won’t find anything here.
We’ll see.
You play?
Play something.
No, no, no, no, no.
Not that.
Play the anthem for us.
No.
I will not.
We are loyal to our God, Jehovah.
Why do you play
for the wrong side
when you know
there is only one outcome?
“For I am convinced
that neither death
“nor life
“nor angels
“nor governments . . .
“will be able
to separate us from God’s love.”
“For I am convinced.”
Up early this morning.
Come with me.
We have news about your father.
How is he?
He’s dying, Sergei.
Please,
can I see him?
You can do even more than that.
You can take him home.
We—we can leave?
Yes.
You can leave and never have to come back.
Just sign this.
What is—
What is it?
Read it.
No.
This opportunity will not come again.
I assure you.
Renounce your religion,
and you both can leave.
No.
No one has to know.
My God will know.
Your God.
Where is your God, Sergei?
Can he rescue you from this place?
Can he give you back your life?
your father?
You’ve been here for five months.
Would you prefer
to make it five more years?
Look at me.
If not for yourself,
do it for your father.
You love him, right?
Right?
Then prove your love for him.
I love my father very much.
We must show Jehovah
that we love him first.
But I love Jehovah first.
And whatever happens,
I will serve him.
OK.
You want to serve him?
Serve him.
Enjoy your five years!
Guard,
take him!
Psst.
Hey.
Who is Jehovah?
Thank you so much for that talk.
That was wonderful.
Thank you.
Sergei!
Alexi?
Natalia?
Yes, it’s us!
Ahh.
I haven’t seen you both since . . .
I know!
It’s been 17 years!
We prayed for your release
every night, Sergei.
Thank you so much.
When they announced your name
as our substitute circuit overseer,
I couldn’t believe it!
Oh, I still cannot believe it.
I’m sorry.
I want you to meet my wife.
This is Anya.
Nice meeting you.
Natalia, Alexi.
Pleasure to meet you.
Nice meeting you too.
Your husband studied with us.
Ahh.
It’s wonderful to meet up again
after all these years!
Would you both come
to my home for dinner tonight?
It would mean so much to us.
Sounds wonderful!
We would be happy to come!
Thank you!
We’ve been waiting for you.
All right.
Well, that was excellent!
Like your talk, Sergei, today.
Ahh.
Yes, it’s rare for someone
so young to teach as you do.
No, I don’t.
Feodor is right.
You are wise beyond your years.
Do you think your time
in prison prepared you?
I definitely had a lot of time to meditate.
So I guess
it might have matured me a little.
You were there nearly twice
as long as most of us.
We can only imagine
how difficult those years were for you.
Is it true you never saw
your father again?
It’s true.
You must be very strong
to withstand that kind of pressure.
Yeah.
Yeah, I suppose so.
I wish you could be
our real circuit overseer.
We heard good things about Brother Elin.
Many good things.
We hope to meet him soon.
He’s OK.
But he’s not the man of the people.
You have suffered like us.
You understand us.
We need someone like you.
Brothers,
I—I appreciate the praise.
But I really don’t deserve it.
Yes, you do.
No!
The praise should go to Jehovah.
It is only because of his power
that any of us can serve him the way we do.
That’s true.
It’s only because of Jehovah’s spirit.
He deserves the praise.
And remember:
Jehovah is the one who chooses
those who serve in the congregations.
Each of us has strengths
that others don’t have.
But Jehovah sees them all,
and he knows how to use them
to advance his will.
So we must trust Jehovah
and be determined to appreciate
the ones he has chosen to use.
Sergei!
What is it?
Viktor wants to see you.
Right away.
Sergei.
Yes, Viktor.
I called you in because I need your help.
Dimitri is sick,
and I have no one else to cover for him.
Who is Dimitri?
He works at our sister plant.
And I need you
to start working there beginning tomorrow.
Where is this other plant?
About an hour away.
An hour away!
Look, Viktor, with all due respect,
I really appreciate this job.
Really.
But I’ve been covering for several people
in the last few months.
And I already feel very exhausted.
Do you think you can find somebody else?
Not with your skill.
But I have a family now
and other responsibilities.
Other responsibilities?
My congregation.
Oh, your religious beliefs again.
Well, I give you time for your meetings,
don’t I?
Yes.
Remember,
I do this not because I value your religion,
but because I value your work.
You’re welcome to look for another job.
But I doubt that you’re going
to find an employer
as understanding
as I am concerning your religious beliefs.
Well, as I said, Viktor,
I really appreciate this job
and all the extra consideration
you’ve been showing me.
So I guess I’ll just cover for Dimitri.
Have a good day.
We’ll be ready for our family study
when you get home.
“Just as it is written:
“‘For your sake we are being
put to death all day long;
“‘we have been accounted
as sheep for slaughtering.’
“On the contrary,
“in all these things
“we are coming off completely victorious
through the one who loved us.”
We can be victorious.
So how are my girls doing?
Ah.
Papa, we’ve have been practicing
for the study tonight.
Mhm.
I’m going to be Mary,
and Mama is going to be Martha.
I guess that makes me Jesus.
Yeah.
Yes.
I hope you are ready for tonight.
Yes, are you ready?
I’m ready, Sweetheart.
I wouldn’t miss it for anything.
Ah.
Come, come, come.
Yeah.
All right.
Irina.
I’m sorry.
I would like you to meet
a very dear friend of ours, Natalia.
Hello.
I knew your father
when he was close to your age.
He helped me learn the truth.
Yeah.
You did?
He was a good teacher, too.
Very patient.
Where is Alexi?
Because we were hoping to see him too.
Yeah.
He’s not here.
Hmm.
Maybe we could stop by
and see him tomorrow before we leave?
Yeah.
You can’t.
Why not?
What’s wrong, Natalia?
Is he sick?
Um.
Go.
What is it?
Tell us!
A few months ago,
Alexi left the truth.
Oh, no!
We haven’t heard.
We’re so sorry, Natalia!
What happened?
A workmate began feeding
his mind with doubts about the organization.
Pretty soon,
those doubts turned into belief,
and he left.
Everyone’s been so supportive
in the congregation.
And Jehovah
—he has never left me.
Yeah.
I remember your words about courage
all those years ago.
I just didn’t want to tell you
because I knew
how much it would hurt you.
No.
Don’t worry.
I just can’t believe it.
I’m so sorry.
He’s been like a second father to me.
Now it feels like I’ve lost two,
you know?
I know.
But he may still come back.
It’s been my earnest wish that he does.
Mine too.
I love you so much.
People may leave,
but Jehovah never will.
He will never abandon his loyal ones.
“For I am convinced.”
Remember?
Yeah, I remember.
Mhm.
Oh, I found this picture
while cleaning the attic.
I didn’t know you played the violin.
I lost interest in it, I guess.
Sergei, Irina.
Good afternoon.
Is it?
We have received your test results.
I wish I had better news.
It’s OK, go ahead.
We have to operate.
All right.
But remember,
no blood!
I will do my best.
But your best option
is a blood transfusion.
Without it,
your chances are much lower.
Do you understand
what I’m trying to say?
Yeah, I understand.
And thank you, Doctor,
for doing your best
and leaving this choice to me.
My stand is the same.
Very well.
We’ll schedule the surgery
for the end of this week.
And we have to run
a few more tests this afternoon,
but I will give you
a few minutes first.
Thank you.
I love you, Papa.
I know you’ll make it through.
Mama always said you were strong.
I love you too, Sweetheart.
And should something happen,
keep your hope anchored
on that wonderful day.
The day when your mom
and I will be reunited
with you in the new world.
Promise me?
I promise.
I will see you outside.
We must show Jehovah that we love him first.
“For I am convinced
“that neither death
“nor life
“nor angels
“nor governments
“nor things now here
“nor things to come
“nor powers
“nor height
“nor depth
“nor any other creation
“will be able to separate us from God’s love
that is in Christ Jesus our Lord.”
“For I am convinced.”